so my emai jure scale is next and as we
said the lowest a we can do not this one
but the octave lower so that's the open
six string e F sharp G sharp a B C sharp
and the new sharp will come on the 7th
note d sharp and then I active e if you
don't understand why that is go back to
the previous lessons start right with a
C scale so you understand the theory
behind this so e F sharp G sharp a B C
sharp d sharp and E so we have four
sharps now in the key of E and this
becomes easier and easier to understand
as you get along hopefully even though
there are more sharps to remember the
way to do these is not to just try to
figure out the pattern and say oh I've
got to keep every you know F sharp every
G sharp every C sharp and so on the way
to think about it is actually the to
memorize the scale and just say e F
sharp G sharp a B C sharp d sharp E me
assure G sharp a B C sharp d sharp E and
then hunt around and find them so if I
say e G sharp F sharp a g-sharp be a
c-sharp be d sharp C sharp E
that's the way to think about it and if
you remember going down from a note
that's called E flat so it's not only d
sharp its be flat as well and that will
be problematic in certain pieces of
music area called notes sharps or flats
there's an understanding and a reason
for that as well not to mention the fact
we also have songs you'll see a song
will be in the key of C with no sharps
or flats it could also be in the key of
a minor and that'll give you a little
problem when you're expecting to see a
song with with no sharps or flats tells
you you're in the key of C well you're
going to immediately think in the key of
C and then you start playing through the
music you're going to say wow that
doesn't sound like the key of C to me
yes because every key has a relative
minor and if you memorized your 165
chord progressions you know the relative
minor for the key of C it's a next chord
which is a minor that means our relative
minor for gene is e minor so when a song
is in the key of g one sharp can also be
in the key of E minor with one sharp and
that's next in the circle of fifths the
key of D has one sharp it's our two
sharps I can't talk and play at zynga
and its relative minor is B minor Saudi
has two sharps B minor as two chirps and
if you don't know why that is
go back and understand the the 165 chord
progressions by rote and then you'll
you'll have them understood with your
ear you won't understand them
theoretically the reason is because we
have what are called modes and we're
going to have a whole section on modes
that will make all of that very easy C
is called a diatonic major scale eight
notes through the scale is also called
an Ionian mode and we have different
modes Ionian Dorian Phrygian
Lydian mixolydian Aeolian and if you
look at that aioli and I can't that
makes an a minor that Aeolian shares the
the key signature that a minor shares a
key signature of no sharps because when
I say that instead of playing it in a
scale and say maybe C sharp d e F sharp
G sharp a if I'm going to play an
Aeolian mode and they only mode in the
key of C but an aom maybe c d e f g a i
made it conform to the notes of the of
the c major scale even though i started
in an a so that's called my Aeolian mode
we're going to make that very simple
when we talk about it with our mold
exercises but that's why it shares the
key signature and an a minor which has a
flatted third in the scale and that's
what a minor chord does and we're going
to talk about that when we go through
our chords it's going to make a lot more
sense so go on to the next which will be
the fifth of a which will be e